(upbeat music)
- [Instructor] Now that we've explored a few ways
to iterate collections,
let's try a programming challenge.
In this challenge, the Landon Hotel
has asked you to implement three new methods
on the RoomService class.
The first method applies a discount
to the rate of each room.
The rate is provided in decimal form
as a double argument to the method.
You'll need to use this double
to reduce the rate assigned to each room.
The next method requires you
to return a new collection of rooms
that contain rooms from the inventory,
which have the same or a higher capacity
than the argument provided to the method.
The final method is similar.
It asks you to return a new collection
of rooms that match a particular type
and are below a provided rate based
on the supplied arguments.
This challenge uses the same format as the others.
There's a comment in each method describing
what needs to be achieved,
and a unit test is provided for validating your work.
So that's the challenge.
I recommend trying several approaches for each one,
like using a forEach loop,
then trying it again with a stream.
This will get you more familiar
with iterating collections.
So if you're up for a challenge,
pause the video and work on your solution.
When you're finished, resume the video
and I'll show you my solution.
Hey, welcome back.
I'm just going to go ahead and dive right into my solution.
So for the first method,
we needed to apply a discount
to each room in the collection.
So that meant we needed to iterate over them.
To do that, I used the forEach method provided
by the iterable interface
that accepts a consumer,
which we can provide as a lambda.
So I started out building the lambda
by specifying its parameter as r.
This is going to be how each room in the collection
is passed into the lambda.
From here, I could set the rate on the room
but I also needed to do a little bit of math.
So I got the original rate,
and then I multiplied that by one
minus the discount that was provided.
And using this technique,
I was able to reduce the rate of the room.
Then I moved on to the next method, getRoomsByCapacity.
This method accepted an integer
and we needed to take that
and go find rooms within our inventory collection
that had a capacity that was greater than
or equal to what was provided.
To tackle this, I used a forEach loop.
So let's go ahead and we'll put that into our code.
Now, because I went this direction,
it meant I needed to create a new collection
that would hold all the rooms that matched our criteria.
I backed this collection using a HashSet.
So I instantiated that with its constructor
and then inside of the forEach loop,
I needed to check
whether or not the room satisfied the condition.
So I got the capacity of the room,
and then I used the greater than
and equal to operator
and compared the room's capacity
against the requiredCapacity
that was provided into the method.
From here, if the room satisfied the condition,
I could just add it into our new collection,
and then I needed to return that new collection
with the matching rooms from the method.
All right.
I was able to move on at that point
to provide an implementation
for the getRoomByRateAndType method.
This method accepted two parameters.
One is a double.
That was a rate.
And the other was a string that's a type.
We needed to search our collection inventory
for rooms that had a rate lower than what was provided,
and that matched the type that was also provided
into the method.
This is a perfect candidate for a stream,
and I also felt guilty
for not using it in the last method.
So that's how I tackled this one.
I got a stream from our collection of rooms,
and then I applied two intermediate operations.
Both were filter.
So the filter I put in place first checked that the rate
of the room was lower than the provided rate.
And then I could move on
and provide the second filter.
And this one needed to check
that the type of the room was equal to the provided type.
Now, from here, I still needed
to satisfy the method signature
and return a collection of rooms.
So this was a perfect situation
to use the collect operation.
So I specified the collect method
and then I used a collector to gather the elements flowing
through the stream into a list.
Okay, so there you can see my solution.
Let's cross our fingers and head over to the unit tests.
I'll just right click on the test,
go to Run As, JUnit test,
and hey, we passed.
Excellent.
That still gets me excited every time
and it wraps up our latest challenge.